What are the design rules that govern this particular use of inheritance? 
What are the characteristics of the best inheritance hierarchies? What are the traps 
that will cause us to create hierarchies that do not conform to the
OCP? These are the questions that are addressed by the Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP).

LSP: The Liskov Substitution Principle

The LSP can be paraphrased as follows:
 - Subtypes must be substitutable for their base types.

What is wanted here is something like the following substitution property: 
If for each object o1 of type S there is an object o2 of type T such that for all 
programs P defined in terms of T, the behavior of P is unchanged when o1 
is substituted for o2 then S is a subtype of T.

The importance of this principle becomes obvious when you consider the consequences of 
violating it. 
Presume that we have a function /that takes, as its argument, a pointer or reference 
to some base class B. Presume also that there is some derivative D of B which, 
when passed to/in the guise of B, causes/to misbehave. Then D violates the LSP. 
Clearly D is Fragile in the presence off. The authors of/will be tempted to put in some kind 
of test for D so that/can behave properly when a D is passed to it. 
This test violates the OCP because now/is not closed to all the various derivatives of B. 
Such tests are a code smell that are the result of inexperienced developers 
(or, what's worse, developers in a hurry) reacting to LSP violations.

a violation of LSP is a latent violation of OCP.

A Simple Example of a Violation of the LSP
  Violating the LSP often results in the use of Run-Time Type Information (RTTI) in a 
  manner that grossly violates the OCP. Frequently, an explicit if statement or if/else 
  chain is used to determine the type of an object so that the behavior appropriate to that 
  type can be selected.

When the creation of a derived class causes us to make changes to the base
class, it often implies that the design is faulty. (violation of OCP)

- Validity Is Not Intrinsic

  A model, viewed in isolation, cannot be meaningfully validated. 
  The validity of a model can only be expressed in terms of its clients.

  When considering whether a particular design is appropriate or not, one 
  cannot simply view the solution in isolation. One must view it in terms of the 
  reasonable assumptions made by the users of that design.
  Who knows what reasonable assumptions the users of a design are going to
  make? Most such assumptions are not easy to anticipate. Indeed, if we tried to
  anticipate them all, we'd likely wind up imbuing our system with the smell of Needless 
  Complexity. Therefore, like all other principles, it is often best to defer all but 
  the most obvious LSP violations until the related Fragility has been smelled.

- IS-A Is about Behavior

  it is behavior that software is really all about. The LSP makes it clear that in OOD, 
  the IS-A relationship pertains to behavior that can be reasonably assumed and that 
  clients depend on.

- Design by contract 

  How do you know what your clients will really expect? There is a technique for making those 
  reasonable assumptions explicit, thereby enforcing the LSP. The technique is called design 
  by contract (DBC)

  Using DBC, the author of a class explicitly states the contract for that class. 
  The contract informs the author of any client code about the behaviors that can be relied on.
  The contract is specified by declaring preconditions and postconditions for each method. 
  The preconditions must be true in order for the method to execute. On completion, 
  the method guarantees that the postconditions are true.

   - A routine redeclaration [in a derivative] may only replace the original precondition 
     by one equal or weaker, and the original postcondition by one equal or stronger.

    In other words, when using an object through its base-class interface, the user knows 
    only the preconditions and postconditions of the base class. Thus, derived objects must 
    not expect such users to obey preconditions that are stronger than those required by 
    the base class. That is, they must accept anything that the base class could accept. 
    Also, derived classes must conform to all the postconditions of the base. 
    That is, their behaviors and  outputs must not violate any of the constraints 
    established for the base class. Users of the base class must not be 
    confused by the output of the derived class.

    One of the bests ways to specify contracts is with unit tests.

- Factoring instead of deriving 

  Another interesting and puzzling case of inheritance is the case of the Line 
  and the LineSegment.

  These two classes appear, at first, to be natural candidates for public inheritance.
  LineSegment needs every member variable and every member function declared in Line. 
  Moreover, LineSegment adds a new member function of its own, GetLength, and overrides 
  the meaning of the IsOn function. Yet these two classes violate the LSP in a subtle way.

  In the case of the Line and LineSegment, there is a simple solution that illustrates an 
  important tool of OOD. If we have access to both the Line and LineSegment classes, 
  then we can factor the common elements of both into an abstract base class called LinearObject.

  Factoring is a design tool that is best applied before there is much code written. 
  When factoring is possible, however, it is a powerful tool. 
  If qualities can be factored out of two subclasses, there is the distinct possibility 
  that other classes will show up later that need those qualities, too.

  We can state that if a set of classes all support a common responsibility, 
  they should inherit that responsibility from a common superclass.
  If a common superclass does not already exist, create one, and move the common 
  responsibilities to it. After all, such a class is demonstrably useful—you have already 
  shown that the responsibilities will be inherited by some classes. Isn't it conceivable 
  that a later extension of your system might add a new subclass that will support those 
  same responsibilities in a new way? This new superclass will probably be an abstract class.

- Heuristics and Conventions
  
  There are some simple heuristics that can give you some clues about LSP violations. 
  They all have to do with derivative classes that somehow remove functionality from their 
  base classes. A derivative that does less than its base is usually not substitutable 
  for that base, and therefore violates the LSP.

  - Degenerate Functions in Derivatives
    Consider the following code. The f function in Base is implemented. However, 
    in Derived it is degenerate. Presumably, the author of Derived found that function 
    f had no useful purpose in a Derived. Unfortunately, the users of Base don't know that 
    they shouldn't call f, so there is a substitution violation.
  
    public class Base
    {
      public void f() {/*some code*/}
    }
    
    public class Derived extends Base
    {
      public void f() {}
    }

    The presence of degenerate functions in derivatives is not always indicative of an LSP 
    violation, but it's worth looking at them when they occur.

  - throwing exceptions from derivatives

    Another form of violation is the addition of exceptions to methods of derived classes 
    whose bases don't throw them. If the users of the base classes don't expect exceptions, 
    then adding them to the methods of derivatives is not substitutable. Either the expectations
    of the users must be altered or the derived classes should not throw the exceptions.